Since its introduction in late 2005, the TOEFL Internet-based Test 
(iBT) format has progressively replaced the computer-based tests (CBT) and paper-based tests (PBT),
although paper-based testing is still used in select areas. The TOEFL iBT test has been introduced
in phases, with the United States, Canada, France, Germany, and Italy in 2005 and the rest 
of the world in 2006, with test centers added regularly. The CBT was discontinued 
in September 2006 and these scores are no longer valid.

Initially, the demand for test seats was higher than availability, and candidates had to wait for months.
It is now possible to take the test within one to four weeks in most countries.
The four-hour test consists of four sections, each measuring one of the basic 
language skills (while some tasks require integrating multiple skills), and all tasks focus on 
language used in an academic, higher-education environment. Note-taking is allowed during the 
TOEFL iBT test. The test cannot be taken more than once every 12 days.

1. Reading
The Reading section consists of questions on 4–6 passages, each approximately 700 words in length.
The passages are on academic topics; they are the kind of material that might be found in an
undergraduate university textbook. Passages require understanding of rhetorical functions such as
cause-effect, compare-contrast and argumentation. Students answer questions about main ideas,
details, inferences, essential information, sentence insertion, vocabulary, rhetorical purpose and
overall ideas. New types of questions in the TOEFL iBT test require filling out tables or completing
summaries. Prior knowledge of the subject under discussion is not necessary to come to the correct
answer.

2. Listening
The Listening section consists of questions on six passages, each 3–5 minutes in length. 
These passages include two student conversations and four academic lectures or discussions. 
The conversations involve a student and either a professor or a campus service provider. 
The lectures are a self-contained portion of an academic lecture, which may involve student 
participation and does not assume specialized background knowledge in the subject area. 
Each conversation and lecture passage is heard only once. Test-takers may take notes while they 
listen and they may refer to their notes when they answer the questions. 
Each conversation is associated with five questions and each lecture with six. 
The questions are meant to measure the ability to understand main ideas, important details, 
implications, relationships between ideas, organization of information, 
speaker purpose and speaker attitude.

3. Speaking
The Speaking section consists of six tasks: two independent and four integrated. 
In the two independent tasks, test-takers answer opinion questions on familiar topics. 
They are evaluated on their ability to speak spontaneously and convey their ideas 
clearly and coherently. In two of the integrated tasks, test-takers read a short passage, 
listen to an academic course lecture or a conversation about campus life and 
answer a question by combining appropriate information from the text and the talk. 
In the two remaining integrated tasks, test-takers listen to an academic course lecture or 
a conversation about campus life and then respond to a question about what they heard. 
In the integrated tasks, test-takers are evaluated on their ability to appropriately synthesize and 
effectively convey information from the reading and listening material. 
Test-takers may take notes as they read and listen and may use their notes to help prepare 
their responses. Test-takers are given a short preparation time before they have to begin speaking. 
The responses are digitally recorded, sent to ETS’s Online Scoring Network (OSN), 
and evaluated by three to six raters.

4. Writing
The Writing section measures a test taker's ability to write in an academic setting and consists 
of two tasks: one integrated and one independent. In the integrated task, 
test-takers read a passage on an academic topic and then listen to a speaker discuss it. 
The test-taker then writes a summary about the important points in the listening passage 
and explains how these relate to the key points of the reading passage. 
In the independent task, the test-taker must write an essay that states their opinion or choice, 
and then explain it, rather than simply listing personal preferences or choices. 
Responses are sent to the ETS OSN and evaluated by at least 3 different raters.